## Things to talk about for first meeting

#### Climate office
- Kathie Dello: the NC Climate Office has an upcoming project that will involve supporting the USFWS that will support the ESA.
  - funding supposed to come in October, feasibly would start next term
  - open for doing externship/internship; she said she always has projects that students can work on, whether paid or not

#### Stats class
- student panel from last year, said they would highly recommend not taking 4 classes
  - next term already has the 3 core courses, so either take one of those in a year's time or take the stats course in Sp 2021

#### Research hours
- fall colors for phenology research
  - understanding the effect of fall coloration
  - no set definitions of end of growing season (coloration, end of C sequestration, >50% leaves drop)
  - correlation of coloration with climate dynamics and constraints
  - if we have microclimate data, could we not calculate predictions for conditions that signal the "end of the growing season" such that you can predict fall colors?
    - e.g. the [smoky mountains map](https://smokymountains.com/fall-foliage-map/) only uses available data from NOAA (temps and historical trends), and this is the main map that people use 
- ecosystem modeling, in terms of ecohydrological model for Lake Urmia (think Aral Sea)
  - do I want to focus on modeling for my main research going forward?
  - would this ultimately become ecological forecasting?
- we were told that several projects stemming from GIS 713 ultimately became papers or potential papers. Would a goal for this term be something similar?

#### Overall research
- do we want a specific calendar for my timeline?
- I know I should have a prelim list of committee members by January, so I can start sending out emails. Other deadlines?


#### Communications
- github
  - using personal repo and be added to lab repo to have projects housed under them.
- scicomm
